Add Critical-CH header reference page (#22798)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/critical-ch/index.md

---
title: Critical-CH
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Critical-CH
tags:
  - Critical-CH
  - Client hint
  - HTTP

>   - HTTP Header

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - HTTP header
```

(To align with the other tag.)

Reviewer 2: FYI, I would ignore tag issues. I plan on deleting the ones that aren't used by yari in the coming months.

Author: Good call Hamish. I'll leave this change.

@tomayac leaving this suggestion, as this tag isn't actually exposed anywhere. As Hamish mentions, work is being done soon to get rid of the ones that aren't being used.

  - Reference
  - Response header
  - Experimental
browser-compat: http.headers.Critical-CH
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}{{SeeCompatTable}}{{SecureContext_Header}}

> The **`Critical-CH`** [user agent client hint](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#user_preference_media_features_client_hints) response header is used along with {{HttpHeader("Accept-CH")}} to specify that accepted client hints are also [critical client hints](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#critical_client_hints) (a header in `Critical-CH` must also appear in `Accept-CH`).

Reviewer 2: Removing the comment about  "(a header in `Critical-CH` must also appear in `Accept-CH`)" because it omits vary being needed to. Will push to end.

```suggestion
The **`Critical-CH`** [user agent client hint](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#user_preference_media_features_client_hints) response header is used along with {{HttpHeader("Accept-CH")}} to specify that accepted client hints are also [critical client hints](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#critical_client_hints).
```

> User agents receiving a response with `Critical-CH` must check if the indicated critical headers were sent in the original request. If not, the user agent will retry the request along with the critical headers rather than render the page. This approach ensures that client preferences set using critical client hints are always used, even if not included in the first request, or if the server configuration changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
User agents receiving a response with `Critical-CH` must check if the indicated critical headers were sent in the original request. If not, the user agent will retry the request along with the critical headers rather than render the page. This approach ensures that client preferences set using critical client hints are always used, even if not included in the first request, or following server configuration changes.
```

> User agents receiving a response with `Critical-CH` must check if the indicated critical headers were sent in the original request. If not, then the user agent will retry the request along with the critical headers rather than render the page. This approach ensures that client preferences set using critical client hints are always used, even if not included in the first request, or if the server configuration changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User agents receiving a response with `Critical-CH` must check if the indicated critical headers were sent in the original request. If not, the user agent will retry the request along with the critical headers rather than render the page. This approach ensures that client preferences set using critical client hints are always used, even if not included in the first request, or if the server configuration changes.
```

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>
        {{Glossary("Response header")}}
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">{{Glossary("Forbidden header name")}}</th>
      <td>no</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http
Critical-CH: <ch-list>
```

### Directives

- `<ch-list>`

>   - : A list of one or more comma-delimited client hint headers that the server considers critical client hints.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - : A list of one or more comma-delimited client hint headers that the server considers to be critical client hints.
```

## Examples

The client makes an initial request to the server:

```http
GET / HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
```

The server responds, telling the client via {{httpheader("Accept-CH")}} that it accepts {{httpheader("Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion")}}. In this example `Critical-CH` is also used, indicating that `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` is considered a critical client hint.

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Accept-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
Vary: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
Critical-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
```

> > **Note:** We've also specified `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` in the {{httpheader("Vary")}} header to indicate to the browser that the served content will differ based on this header value, even if the URL stays the same, so the browser shouldn't just use an existing cached response but instead should cache this response separately. Each header listed in the `Critical-CH` header should also be present in the `Accept-CH` and `Vary` headers.

Reviewer 2: The first sentence is a "bit of a mouthful". More critically, the it is not just the browser that might be caching the response, but any intermediate cache.

```suggestion
> **Note:** We've also specified `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` in the {{httpheader("Vary")}} header to indicate that responses should be separately cached based on the value of this header (even if the URL stays the same). 
> Each header listed in the `Critical-CH` header should also be present in the `Accept-CH` and `Vary` headers.
```

> > **Note:** We've also specified `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` in the {{httpheader("Vary")}} header to indicate to the browser that the served content will differ based on this header value, even if the URL stays the same, so the browser shouldn't just use an existing cached response and instead should cache this response separately. Each header listed in the `Critical-CH` header should also be present in the `Accept-CH` and `Vary` headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** We've also specified `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` in the {{httpheader("Vary")}} header to indicate to the browser that the served content will differ based on this header value, even if the URL stays the same, so the browser shouldn't just use an existing cached response but instead should cache this response separately. Each header listed in the `Critical-CH` header should also be present in the `Accept-CH` and `Vary` headers.
```

---
title: Critical-CH
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Critical-CH
tags:
  - Critical-CH
  - Client hint
  - HTTP
  - HTTP Header
  - Reference
  - Response header
  - Experimental
browser-compat: http.headers.Critical-CH
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}{{SeeCompatTable}}{{SecureContext_Header}}

The **`Critical-CH`** [user agent client hint](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#user_preference_media_features_client_hints) response header is used along with {{HttpHeader("Accept-CH")}} to specify that accepted client hints are also [critical client hints](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#critical_client_hints).

> User agents receiving a response with `Critical-CH` must check if the indicated critical headers were sent in the original request. If not, the user agent will retry the request along with the critical headers rather than render the page. This approach ensures that client preferences set using critical client hints are always used, even if not included in the first request, or following server configuration changes.
> 
> <table class="properties">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
User agents receiving a response with `Critical-CH` must check if the indicated critical headers were sent in the original request. If not, the user agent will retry the request along with the critical headers rather than render the page. This approach ensures that client preferences set using critical client hints are always used, even if not included in the first request, or following server configuration changes.

Each header listed in the `Critical-CH` header should also be present in the `Accept-CH` and `Vary` headers.

<table class="properties">
```

---
title: Critical-CH
slug: Web/HTTP/Headers/Critical-CH
tags:
  - Critical-CH
  - Client hint
  - HTTP
  - HTTP Header
  - Reference
  - Response header
  - Experimental
browser-compat: http.headers.Critical-CH
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}{{SeeCompatTable}}{{SecureContext_Header}}

> The **`Critical-CH`** [user agent client hint](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#user_preference_media_features_client_hints) response header is used along with {{HttpHeader("Accept-CH")}} to specify that accepted client hints are also [critical client hints](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#critical_client_hints).

Reviewer 2: Its not a media feature client hint.
```suggestion
The **`Critical-CH`** [client hint](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints) response header is used along with {{HttpHeader("Accept-CH")}} to specify that accepted client hints are also [critical client hints](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Client_hints#critical_client_hints).
```

Each header listed in the `Critical-CH` header should also be present in the `Accept-CH` and `Vary` headers.

<table class="properties">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Header type</th>
      <td>
        {{Glossary("Response header")}}
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">{{Glossary("Forbidden header name")}}</th>
      <td>no</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

## Syntax

```http
Critical-CH: <ch-list>
```

### Directives

- `<ch-list>`

  - : A list of one or more comma-delimited client hint headers that the server considers to be critical client hints.

## Examples

The client makes an initial request to the server:

```http
GET / HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
```

The server responds, telling the client via {{httpheader("Accept-CH")}} that it accepts {{httpheader("Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion")}}. In this example `Critical-CH` is also used, indicating that `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` is considered a critical client hint.

```http
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: text/html
Accept-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
Vary: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
Critical-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
```

> > **Note:** We've also specified `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` in the {{httpheader("Vary")}} header to indicate that responses should be separately cached based on the value of this header (even if the URL stays the same). 
> > Each header listed in the `Critical-CH` header should also be present in the `Accept-CH` and `Vary` headers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note:** We've also specified `Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion` in the {{httpheader("Vary")}} header to indicate that responses should be separately cached based on the value of this header (even if the URL stays the same).
> Each header listed in the `Critical-CH` header should also be present in the `Accept-CH` and `Vary` headers.
```
